Create BluRay Video
OVERVIEW
Creating Video (DVD & BLU-RAY) from pictures & video taken on our trips.
The assumption is that everything is in chronological order. Video is inserted in the appropriate place in pictures.
Sometime allowances must be made to maintain flow and importance of some of the pictures. Some individuals would prefer showing pictures then video, while others visa versa.

Having one camera makes it easy to put pictures in the right order. However that is not always the case.

Put your pictures in separate folders for each day. Within that folder another folder for each camera. also separate your video from your pictures.

The advantage of using Kdenlive is being able create a set of slides from a folder. Other video editors require you to insert each picture.
Also, creating the correct mp4 file for bluray conversion with compression without loss of quality.
Kdenlive custom Bluray option changes sound to ac3
Plan your bluray to determine each 1-6 chapters (using Nero templates limit it to 6 chapters). Each mp4 file will be a chapter.
For DVD size files to share, use Kdenlive custom Bluray option, but change dimensions to 720x480 and 100% quality. Also change name (add dvd in name) to prevent overwriting.
However, the folder pictures need to be organized and formatted.

The use of Nero to create DVD & BLURAY is nice & inexpensive. However, modification is necessary. The DVD quality will start to diminish if longer than 1.5 hours.
The BLURAY can be of high quality if created specially and you keep it under about 2.5 hours. 

Under Nero, determine your chapters. Based on your chose of templates. Keep to one page (4-6 chapters).

STEP ONE - PREPARING PICTURES
Put your pictures in separate folders for each day. Within that folder another folder for each camera. also separate your video from your pictures.
 pic2024 (top folder)
  pic20241223 (subfolder format picyyyymmmdd)
    camera1 (subsubfolder)
    camera2 (subsubfolder)
    ...

convert all pictures to .jpg  (rename .jpeg to .jpg)
  Convert heic to jpg:
     mogrify -format jpg -quality 100 *.heic

if just one camera, no additional changes.

if facebook pictures or other pictures with no exif data, need to rename them in the format yyyy_mm_dd_nnn_xxxxxxxxx.jpg.
to reduce this effort, just rename one picture and put it in a new folder (ie merge1).
use program mergeinto.. to merge the remaining pictures in the right order.
